<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="information-classification-handling-and-security-guide">
  <title>Information classification, handling and security guide</title>
  <body>
    <p>Information classification is the process by which the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> assesses the level of protection it gives to the information that it holds.</p>
    <p>Protective controls must be balanced with the need for utilising those assets to support the effective conduct of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business.</p>
  </body>
 
  <topic id="key-principles">
    <title>Key principles</title>
    <body>
      <p>There are six key principles for the secure, timely and efficient sharing of information:</p>
      <ol>
      <li>ALL information that the MoJ needs to collect, store, process, generate, dispose or share to deliver services and conduct government business has intrinsic value and requires an appropriate degree of protection.</li>
      <li>Individual MoJ departments may apply additional security controls and behaviours above (but not below) the baselines outlined in the HMG Government Security Classifications Policy, in line with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> risk appetite.</li>
      <li>Everyone (including staff, contractors and service providers) has a duty of confidentiality and a responsibility to safeguard any MoJ information or data that they access and/or share, irrespective of whether it is marked or not, and must be provided with appropriate training. Individuals are accountable for their own security decisions.</li>
      <li>Information should be protected proportionately to the impact of compromise and the capability and intent of threat actors likely to seek that information. Access to information must ONLY be granted where there is assurance that appropriate security controls (personnel, physical, procedural and technical) are in place.</li>
      <li>Information should be handled and distributed on a genuine need-to-know basis, balanced with the need-to-share (as defined in the glossary), dependent on the sensitivity of the information.</li>
      <li>Information received from or exchanged with external partners MUST be protected in accordance with any relevant legislative or regulatory requirements, including any international agreements and obligations.</li>
      </ol>
      </body>
      <topic id="definitions-of-need-to-know-and-need-to-share">
  <title>Definitions of need to know and need to share</title>
<body>
      <p><b>Need-to-know</b></p>
      <p>Access to sensitive information must be no wider than necessary for the efficient conduct of official work, and limited to those with a business need and the appropriate personnel security clearance.</p>
      <p><b>Need-to-share</b></p>
      <p>Information must be shared with those with a legitimate need.</p>

      <topic id="securing-moj-information">
  <title>Securing MoJ information</title>
      <p>Securing the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information must be done with a combination of information security measures:
      <ul>
      <li>PERSONNEL – Everyone working for the MoJ should be aware of their security responsibilities and in turn acquire security clearances and undertake training to support the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information security objectives</li>
      <li>PHYSICAL - Tangible measures should be implemented to prevent unauthorised access to physical areas, systems, or assets</li>
      <li>TECHNICAL - Hardware or software mechanisms should be implemented to protect information and IT assets</li>
      </ul></p>
      </body>
      </topic>

      <topic id="classifying-information">
  <title>Classifying information</title>
  <body>
  <p>Security classification is determined by the impact of its loss or unauthorised access to it, and not by the type of information.</p>
  <p>It is the responsibility of the Data Owner to classify the data. However, anyone handling that data should be aware of their responsibility to protect the information.</p>
  <p>The MoJ uses three classification tiers:
  <ul>
  <li>OFFICIAL</li>
  <li>SECRET</li>
  <li>TOP SECRET</li>
  </ul></p>
  <p>Most data handled by the MoJ will be classified as OFFICIAL.</p>
  <p>Each classification provides a set of protective security controls and baseline behaviours, which are proportionate to the potential impact of:
  <ul>
  <li>a compromise</li>
  <li>accidental loss</li>
  <li>incorrect disclosure</li>
  <li>the level of interest expected from threat actors</li>
  </ul></p>
  <p>The protective controls must be balanced with the need for utilising those assets to support the effective conduct of MoJ business.</p>
<p>Information security classification may change throughout the information lifecycle.</p>
<p>It is important to apply appropriate security classifications, continually evaluate them, and consider that:
<ul>
<li>applying too high a marking may inhibit business operations, such as collaboration, and lead to unnecessary and expensive protective controls being applied</li>
<li>applying too low a marking may result in inappropriate controls, and may put sensitive assets at greater risk of compromise</li>
<li>incorrect disposal may lead to unauthorised access to information. Disposal of information should be done using approved processes, equipment or service providers. Refer to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <xref href="data-destruction.dita" format="dita">Data Destruction Guide</xref> to understand when the disposal should be witnessed and recorded</li>
</ul></p>
<p>Additional information on how to manage information is described in the Information Asset Management Policy.</p>
<p>Information classified SECRET or TOP SECRET must not be shared via Non-Corporate Communications Channels (NCCC).</p>

</body>
</topic>

<topic id="official">
  <title>OFFICIAL</title>
<body>
<p>All information related to MoJ routine business, operations, and services.</p>
<p>If OFFICIAL information is compromised, lost, stolen, or published, it would cause no more than moderate damage.</p>
<p>Aggregated data sets of OFFICIAL information may warrant additional controls. See <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/guidance-15-considerations-for-security-advisors-html" format="html" scope="external">Guidance 1.5: Considerations for Security Advisors</xref>.</p>
<p>National security vetting is not required to access OFFICIAL information but all HMG staff and contractors must undergo a BPSS pre-employment check (or equivalent).</p>
<p>Contracting Authorities should continue to ensure all contractors that have access to MoJ information continue to follow the vetting requirements outlined in Contractual Process 2018.</p>
<p><b>Threat profile</b></p>
<p>The threat profile for the OFFICIAL classification tier anticipates a need to defend against a broad range of threat actors, which may include:
<ul>
<li>staff who pose insider risk</li>
<li>unauthorised leaks to the media</li>
<li>criminal individuals and groups</li>
</ul></p>

<p><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/government-security-classifications-policy-html#definitions-for-official-secret-and-top-secret" format="html" scope="external">More information about OFFICIAL threat profiles</xref>.</p>

<p><b>Working at OFFICIAL</b></p>
<p><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/guidance-11-working-at-official-html" format="html" scope="external">Guidance 1.1: Working at OFFICIAL</xref> offers policy guidance on working at OFFICIAL.</p>
<p><b>Risks of a compromise</b></p>
<p>In most cases there are few negative consequences if OFFICIAL information is compromised.</p>
<p>However, unintended disclosure or compromise of OFFICIAL information marked, -SENSITIVE, may lead to moderate damage (including to the UK’s longer-term strategic/economic position) and in exceptional circumstances to a threat to life.</p>
<p>Due to the wide-ranging sensitivity of different information that sits within this tier, the effect of an accidental or deliberate compromise at OFFICIAL may be wide-ranging.</p>
<p>The <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/government-security-classifications-policy-html#definitions-for-official-secret-and-top-secret" format="html" scope="external">Government Security Classifications Policy</xref> gives guidance on the risks of compromise of OFFICIAL information, and how it affects:
<ul>
<li>life and safety</li>
<li>international relations</li>
<li>military operations</li>
<li>prosperity</li>
<li>security and intelligence</li>
</ul></p>

<p><b>What to do in the event of a compromise</b></p>
<p><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/government-security-classifications-policy-html#annex-b---what-to-do-in-the-event-of-a-compromise-of-official-secret-top-secret-information" format="html" scope="extrenal">Annex B to the Government Security Classifications Policy</xref> offers guidance on what to do if OFFICIAL, SECRET or TOP SECRET information is compromised.</p>
<p><B>OFFICIAL and OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</b></p>
<p>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE is information that is not intended for public release and that is of at least some interest to threat actors (internal or external), activists or the media.</p>
<p>OFFICIAL information that uses the -SENSITIVE marking is likely to be of interest to threat actors due to its sensitivity or topical significance. A compromise may cause moderate, short-term damage to: HMG, the UK’s international reputation, the UK economy, HMG’s relations with its partners (including international partners) or moderate harm or distress to an individual or group of people.</p>

<p><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/guidance-11-working-at-official-html" format="html" scope="external">Guidance 1.1: Working at OFFICIAL</xref> gives more information.</p>
<p>Whilst OFFICIAL and OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE are the classifications most used in the MoJ, certain areas may use SECRET or TOP SECRET.</p>
</body>
</topic>

<topic id="secret">
<title><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/secret"/></title>
<body>
<p>SECRET is applied to very sensitive information that requires enhanced protective controls, suitable to defend against highly capable and determined threat actors, whereby a compromise could threaten life (an individual or group), seriously damage the UK’s security and/or international relations, its financial security/stability or impede its ability to investigate serious and organised crime.</p>
<p>For regular, unsupervised access to Secret information, someone would be expected to have passed National Security Vetting Security Check (SC) clearance.</p>
<p>In exceptional circumstances, someone with BPSS might be granted occasional supervised access to UK Secret assets, or be required to work in areas where Secret or Top Secret information might be overheard.</p>
<p>Whilst the SECRET classification is not widely-used in the MoJ, <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/government-security-classifications-policy-html#definitions-for-official-secret-and-top-secret" format="html" scope="external">The Government security classifications policy</xref> gives guidance on the risks of compromise of SECRET information, and how it affects:
<ul>
<li>life and safety</li>
<li>international relations</li>
<li>military operations</li>
<li>prosperity</li>
<li>security and intelligence</li>
</ul></p>
<p><xref href="https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1166149/Guidance_1.2__Working_at_SECRET.pdf" format="html" scope="external">Guidance 1.2 - Working at SECRET</xref> gives more information.</p>
</body>
</topic>

<topic id="top-secret">
<title><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/topsecret"/></title>
<body>
<p>TOP SECRET refers to exceptionally sensitive information assets that directly support or inform the national security of the UK or its allies AND require an extremely high assurance of protection from all threats with the use of secure networks on highly secured dedicated physical infrastructure, and robustly defined and implemented boundary security controls.</p>
<p>For regular, unsupervised access to TOP SECRET information, employees and contractors should have undergone Developed Vetting (DV) security clearance checks.</p>
<p>Whilst the TOP SECRET classification is not widely-used in the MoJ, The Government security classifications policy gives guidance on the risks of compromise of TOP SECRET information, and how it affects:
<ul>
<li>life and safety</li>
<li>international relations</li>
<li>military operations</li>
<li>prosperity</li>
<li>security and intelligence</li>
</ul></p>
<p><xref href="https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1166150/Guidance_1.3__Working_at_TOP_SECRET.pdf" format="html" scope= "external">Guidance 1.3 - Working at TOP SECRET</xref> gives more information.</p>
</body>
</topic>

<topic id="reclassifying-information" conref="conrefs.dita#reclassifying-information"><title/></topic>
<topic id="reclassification-examples">
<title>Reclassification examples</title>
<body>
<p>The classification of an asset can only be changed and/or reclassified by the information owner.</p>
<p>Information users may challenge the classification of an asset with a reasoned argument.</p>
<p>A consideration to reclassify an information asset should consider the right balance between controls to protect information with the need to utilise assets to support the effective conduct of government business (i.e. a need-to-know and need-to-share consideration).</p>
</body>
</topic>

<topic id="handling-and-securing-information">
<title>Handling and securing information</title>
<body>
<p>Within a classification tier, handling instructions can also be used to give a more detailed picture of the information’s sensitivity and how it should be appropriately handled.</p>
<p>Handling instructions do not change the information’s classification as the threat profile is the same, nor do they offer additional technical protections; they just provide more detail around how information should be handled, how widely it should be disseminated and how it should be protected.</p>
<p>A centrally defined list of handling instructions is shown in the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/government-security-classifications-policy-html#additional-markings" format="html" scope="external">Additional Markings section of the Government Security Classifications Policy</xref>.</p>
</body>
</topic>

<topic id="additional-markings">
<title>Additional markings</title>
<body>
<p>Additional markings can be added in conjunction with a classification to indicate the nature or source of the information, or to limit access to specific user groups.</p>
<p>Additional markings indicate where additional protective controls or security behaviours are required to protect the information.</p>
<p>There are several different types of additional markings, including:
<ul>
<li>the -SENSITIVE marking</li>
<li>handling instructions</li>
</ul><p>
<p>Information creators should apply additional markings to help users understand information sensitivities and specific restrictions on information sharing.</p>
<p>Security teams must offer guidance to users on how to mark and protect information with additional markings.</p>
<p>The <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/government-security-classifications-policy-html#additional-markings" format="html" scope="external">HMG Government Security Classifications Policy</xref> gives more information about additional markings.</p>
</body>
</topic>

<topic id="publication-and-disclosure">
<title>Publication and disclosure</title>
<body>
<p>If sensitive information is being considered for publication or disclosure, every effort should be made to consult the information creator and/or originating department.</p>
<p>Please refer to the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/government-security-classifications-policy-html#further-considerations-for-users" format="html" scope="external">HMG Government Security Classifications Policy</xref></p>.
<p><b>Note:</b> Different information security measures might be applicable throughout the information lifecycle. It is important continually to evaluate security classifications and their corresponding measures. Refer to the<xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/government-security-classifications-policy-html#further-considerations-for-users" format="html" scope="external">HMG Government Security Classifications Policy for further guidance.</p>

<p><b>Legal framework</b></p>
<p><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications/government-security-classifications-policy-html#annex-a---legal-framework" format="html" scope="external">Annex A to the Government Security Classification Policy</xref> describes how the policy acts within the framework of domestic law.</p>
</body>
</topic>

<topic id="glossary">
<title>Glossary</title>
<body>
<p>
<ul>
<p><b>Classification Tier</b> - Indicates the sensitivity of the asset in terms of the likely impact resulting from compromise, loss or misuse, AND provides baseline controls and behaviours to protect against distinct threat profiles, which reflect the broad range of threat actors typically expected at that classification.</p>
<p><b>Compromise</b> - In the context of security, a compromise occurs when a classified asset (including people, property or information) is exposed intentionally or unintentionally to a system, device, or an unauthorised individual without the appropriate security clearance and/or need-to-know and without a legitimate business need (see need-to-share).</p>
<p><b>Controls</b> - The protective security measures that aim to reduce and manage the risk of assets being compromised.</p>
<p><b>Delivery Partner (organisation)</b> - A contractor who has a legitimate business need and the necessary clearance to access, store or process government information, and can be trusted to handle the information appropriately.</p>
<p><b>Descriptors</b> - Descriptors are applied by users to easily identify certain categories or types of information with special sensitivities and highlight additional access restrictions.</p>
<p><b>Handling Instructions</b> - Markings which are used within a classification tier to provide additional instructions to staff when handling information. They help protect a range of information with varying sensitivity against a classification’s broad threat profile.</p>
<p><b>Identifiable Living Individual</b> - A living individual who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data or an online identifier, or one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of the individual (Data Protection Act, 2018).</p>
<p><b>Information Creator</b> - The person who has the authority over the creation or distribution of an information asset, and is responsible for determining the classification, handling, dissemination and disposal of that information.</p>
<p><b>Information User</b> - The staff, delivery partners and third-party suppliers who process HMG information assets, and are personally accountable for handling, disseminating and disposing of the information responsibly in line with HMG policy.</p>
<p><b>Insider Risk</b> - Risk arising from a person who (knowingly or unknowingly) misuses legitimate access to compromise, or risk compromise, of classified information.</p>
<p><b>Need-to-know</b> - Access to sensitive information must be no wider than necessary for the efficient conduct of official work, and limited to those with a business need and the appropriate personnel security clearance.</p>
<p><b>Need-to-share</b> - Information must be shared with those with a legitimate need. Information is only valuable to a user once they have access to it.</p>
<p><b>Organisation</b> - HMG departments or agencies, public bodies and government contractors who are responsible for accessing, storing or processing government information.</p>
<p><b>Personal Data</b> - Any information relating to an identified or identifiable living individual (Data Protection Act, 2018).</p>
<p><b>Security Outcomes</b> - The baseline aims that an organisation must use when developing appropriate and proportionate information, personnel, physical and cyber security controls, to manage risks to an acceptable level within the organisational risk appetite.</p>
<p><b>Security Risk</b> - A risk arising from a failure to prevent unauthorised and/or inappropriate access to an asset.</p>
<p><b>Threat Actor</b> - A person/entity/state which has the capability and intent to impact the security of an asset (including people, property or information). Can also be called a malicious actor.</p>
</ul></p>
</body>
</topic>

</topic>
<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
<topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
